.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.Dd January 2, 2013
.Dt FONEHOME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fonehome
.Nd establish connection to fonehome server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm fonehome
.Bk -words
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Ek
.Nm fonehome
.Bk -words
.Fl I
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a wrapper for the
.Xr ssh 1
program.
It creates a persistent no-pty
.Xr ssh 1
connection to one or more fonehome servers, with normal and reverse port forwarding
setup according to the configuration in
.Pa @fonehomeconf@ .
This allows private, bi-directional connections between the fonehome client and server,
while keeping those connections fully secured, without requiring any firewall setup.
.Pp
.Nm
is useful in situations where you have several machines
deployed in the field and want to maintain secure access to them from a central
operations server without any firewall hassles.
.Pp
Normally
.Nm
is run as a
.Xr systemd 1
service.
However, upon first installation (or whenever a server's host key changes),
a manual initialization step must be performed by running
.Nm
manually with the
.Fl I
flag.
This allows the administrator to confirm and accept the server host key(s).
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar config-file
Use and alternate configuration file other than the default
.Pa @fonehomeconf@ .
.It Fl I
Perform first-time initialization when connecting to a new server.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is a
.Xr bash 1
source file that defines the following shell variables:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa SERVER
Defines the host to connect to.
This is the only variable that is strictly required.
.It Pa SSH_FLAGS
.Xr ssh 1
command line flags to use with the connection.
Typically this will contain reverse-forwarded ports to allow connections back from
the server to the client.
.It Pa USERNAME
SSH username.
Default is
.Ar @fonehomeuser@ .
.It Pa KEY_FILE
File containing the SSH private key.
This file must be unencrypted to allow for unattended operation; however,
it should be readable only by root.
Default is
.Ar @fonehomekey@ .
.It Pa RETRY_DELAY
How long (in seconds) to pause between connection attempts.
Default is
.Ar @fonehomeretry@
seconds.
.It Pa SYSLOG_TAG
Identifier to use when logging to
.Xr syslog 3 .
Default is
.Ar @fonehomename@ .
.It Pa SYSLOG_FACILITY
Facility to use when logging to
.Xr syslog 3 .
Default is
.Ar @fonehomelogfac@ .
.It Pa KNOWN_HOSTS_FILE
SSH known hosts file used to store recognized server public keys.
Default is
.Ar @fonehomehosts@ .
.El
.Sh MULTIPLE SERVERS
.Nm
suports connecting to multiple servers.
To enable multi-server support, simply declare
.Pa SERVER
as a
.Xr bash 1
array variable.
Then a separate connection will be maintained to each server in the array.
.Pp
When multiple servers are configured, the
.Pa USERNAME ,
.Pa SSH_FLAGS ,
.Pa KEY_FILE ,
and
.Pa RETRY_DELAY
variables may also be declared as arrays, in which case the corresponding
array elements will be used for each server.
If these variables are not arrays, or are shorter than the
.Pa SERVER
array, the last value will be used repeatedly.
Therefore, setting a simple (non-array) value results in that value being used for all servers.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa @fonehomeconf@
Default configuration file.
.It Pa @fonehomekey@
Default private SSH key file used to authenticate to the server.
.It Pa @fonehomehosts@
Default SSH known hosts file used to store and verify the server's public key.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1 .
.Rs
.%T "fonehome: Remote access to machines behind firewalls"
.%O https://github.com/archiecobbs/fonehome/
.Re
